The Jerusalem channel is made with the support of you, our viewers.
Thank you for watching.
The Israel-Hating Government of Iran is facing a water crisis caused by unprecedented drought.
The situation in Iran is reportedly of biblical proportions.
The land is parched and the capital is reportedly sinking due to empty reservoirs below.
So what does God's word in the Bible say about the causes of drought?
Does enmity toward Israel have anything to do with divine judgments?
Well, this is one of many end-time topics we'll be examining in today's Bible prophecy update.
Shalom, I'm Christine Darg.
Iran's drought is the worst for at least 40 years, and water levels are shrinking at a time of year when shortages would normally be recovering, not collapsing.
According to various news reports, taps may soon run dry in Iran, where the water crisis is so severe, it can even be seen from space as shown in this CNN screenshot.
The capital Tehran is in the spotlight
But the water crisis goes well beyond the capital.
Around 20 provinces are suffering severely.
A mostly semi-arid country, Iran is no stranger to water shortages, but rarely have the shortages affected the capital Tehran, which is home to most of the country's elite, and where terror attacks are formulated.
This year, the nation's capital city, with a population of at least 10 million, has received only one millimeter of rain
That's a far cry from its average of 350 millimeters.
The main reservoir supplying the capital are reportedly only around 11% full.
A major dam near the city is only about 9% full, and it's being fed by an almost entirely dry riverbed with just a few trickling streams.
Another dam, 40 miles from Tehran, is also down to parisley low levels, and about 8% of its capacity
And that's according to Reuters news agency.
Water levels are only 3 percent in reservoirs supplying Iran's second largest city, Mahmoud, which is home to around three million persons.
According to the director of the United Nations University Institute for Water Environment and Health, Iran's situation is not a short-term disaster.
It's a rolling, long-term catastrophe, he said, bringing irreversible damages.
He described the country as being in
Water bankruptcy, extracting from its rivers, lakes, and wetlands, which are all akin, he said, to a checking account, and he compared the underground aquifers to a completed savings account.
In short, rivers, lakes, and aquifers are being spent at a much faster rate than they are being replenished.
Additionally, water-guzzling industries, such as oil and gas, have also been built in Iran's dry and semi-dry regions
adding to the pressure already existing in these fragile regions.
Swelling herbal populations have also increased the demand.
Then the situation is further deteriorated by aging infrastructures.
An estimated 30% of treated drinking water is lost through old leaky distribution centers, and there's very little water recycling.
The Guardian newspaper had a fascinating headline,
climate crisis or a warning from God.
Iran's desperate for answers as water dries up.
Muslim clerics insist that Allah is sending drought because of the debauchery in Iran.
They believe the drought is judgment on the nation for its failure to enforce the strict clothing laws imposed on the downtrodden Iranian women.
Iran is now in its sixth consecutive year of drought.
which is at a scale intensity and duration that is unprecedented in modern times.
Well, the human explanation is that conditions driving the drought are at low rainfall and soaring temperatures.
However, the situation has become so acute that even if the rains come, it's unlikely to be enough.
Aquifers that have been drained will not rebound in ecosystems that collapse cannot quickly be restored.
So the people are praying fervently for rainfall.
Residents have been reporting reduced water pressure.
Sometimes their taps run dry for long periods of time.
Government communication with the public is inconsistent, leading to high levels of mistrust and conspiracy theories.
There's talk of temporary evacuations.
But where would the people go?
Iran has even resorted to cloud seeding as a desperate last ditch effort to boost rainfall.
The government has tried this cloud seething by injecting particles into clouds to try to draw out rain or snow.
These are the physical realities.
So now let's consider the spiritual aspects, something the news agencies don't normally report.
What does this Bible say about drought?
Well, the Bible connects drought directly to divine judgment with calls to repentance.
A recent headline from the Wall Street Journal grabbed my attention.
It said hatred of Israel caused Iran's water crisis.
The author of this opinion piece said that previously under the Israel-friendly former Shah of Iran, engineers from the Jewish state had built an efficient infrastructure in Iran.
But then came the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
The article quoted Iranian President, a resident president possessed Keon, saying Iran is running out of water and if it doesn't soon rain, we'll have to ration water.
The article stated, quote, blame the Islamic Republic's fanatical hatred of Israel.
Decades ago, the Jewish state saved Iran from catastrophic ruin, from border mismanagement.
Then the country's extremist post-revolution leadership wrecked everything, end quote.
Well, according to this Wall Street Journal article, there was a devastating earthquake in Iran in 1962, and the Shah had asked experts from Israel to come over to advise Iranians how to modernize their water systems.
Israel's assistance was crucial and very valuable.
But all of their vital help was cut off after the Iranian Revolution in 1979.
Subsequently, Iran has spent all of his efforts and money over the last decades on nuclear plants rather than desalination plants
which transformed seawater into domestic use.
We know that since the Iranian Revolution in 1979, the nation has consequently become Israel's most dangerous enemy and the world's number one sponsor of terror.
It's so interesting that the drought in Iran intensified significantly over this past summer after the 12-day war with Israel.
So do you think the God of Israel was watching?
Iran hit record temperatures, subsequently, up to 122 degrees in the desert, greatly accelerating the drought.
The Wall Street Journal's very honest headline, A Hatred of Israel Caused Iran's Water Crisis, is true in more ways than one.
It's true in the physical realm as a result of Iran's expulsion of the Israelis who were creating a central water technology before 1979.
But the headline is even more true in the spiritual sense
According to Prophecy News Watch, because of God's ancient promise to the Jewish people in Genesis 12-3.
In that verse, God said, I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse Him who curses you.
And the God of Israel has never revoked that promise.
Thus, Iran's drought has been called the Genesis 12-3 effect.
In this sense, the article stated that the drought in Iran is truly a disaster of biblical proportions.
In short, it's a curse.
Tragically, the nations of the world fail to believe Genesis 12.3, even though it's been played out in history, time and time again.
So, for our edification, I looked up the key passages and themes in the Bible concerning drought.
And in Deuteronomy 28, God set down the principle of a curse for disobedience.
He said, The heavens over your head shall be bronze, and the earth underneath your feet shall be iron.
The Lord will change the reign of your land into powder.
From heaven, dust shall come down on you until you are destroyed."
That's the classic biblical explanation.
Drought is one of the covenant curses, not only for Israel's unfaithfulness, but drought is a principle for any nation that fails to honor God and believe God and act accordingly.
And here's another passage, Leviticus 26, 18 to 20.
God said, if you still will not listen to me, I will break the pride of your power and I will make your heavens like iron.
and your earth like bronze.
Your strength shall be spent in vain, for your land shall not yield its increase."
Furthermore, in 1 Kings 17, the prophet Elijah decreed the famous drought under Israel's king Ahab.
Elijah announced, as the Lord the God of Israel lives, there shall not be due nor reign these years except by my word.
The drought only ended after Elijah's showdown on Mount Carmel with false prophets.
resulting in Israel's renewed allegiance to Yehovah."
And there's also the famous verses in 2 Chronicles 7, 13 to 14, which many of us have been praying generically over our nations.
In those words, God says, when I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, if my people who are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and I will heal their land.
Therefore, in the Bible, drought is portrayed as a disciplinary measure that can be reversed through repentance.
Prophatically, during the millennium, as prophesied in Zechariah 14-17, God will enforce obedience to His commands among the nations, particularly regarding the observance of the Feast of Tabernacles in Jerusalem.
Should any nation refuse to send representatives to Jerusalem to honor the Lord and participate in this annual festival,
Divine judgment will be imposed upon them in the form of drought.
This withholding of rain will serve as a direct consequence, leading to agricultural failure, famine and hardship, symbolizing God's sovereignty and the necessity of universal worship.
For example, the text specifies that Egypt, which is reliant on the Nile's floods, Egypt would suffer plagues if it neglects its duty during King Messiah's thousand-year reign on earth.
Now concerning drought, the Bible does not deny secondary neurological causes, but it consistently frames drought within a moral and theological framework.
Many Bible verses describe God as being sovereign of a rainfall, and he withholds rain when people turn away from him.
Repentance and renewed obedience are the prescribed remedy for adequate rainfall.
Floods are treated as part of the fallen world's weather patterns rather than targeted biblical punishments.
Some modern preachers or individuals may interpret specific floods as God's judgment on particular sins.
But this is a minority interpretive choice, not a universal doctrinal consensus across Judaism and Christianity as is drowned.
So to recap, here are some of the sobering facts about Iran's deepening water crisis and animosity towards Israel and against the Judeo-Christian West.
The current crisis constituates the worst drought
in the nation's recorded history.
Iran has suffered six consecutive years of drought.
According to Prophecy News Watch, 32 of Iran's dams have less than 5 percent capacity.
And the reservoirs, behind 19 major dams, are bone dry.
Consider the magnitude of this calamity.
If there's not a major breakthrough, there will be millions of thirsty people with nowhere to go.
Political upheavals and uprisings are not far-fetched within a nation in the desperate throes of a relentless drought.
Many people in Iran also believe this crisis is divine judgment.
But it's not judgment upon the poor downtrodden women who have been harassed by modesty police for decades.
This judgment coming from God Almighty for the government's hatred of Israel and persecution of Christians, particularly converts from Islam
face severe persecution under the Islamic Republic's regime.
The government views Christianity as a Western threat, and leaving Islam is regarded as apostasy, punished by death.
Authorities use charges like acting against national security or propaganda against the state to imprison converts to Christianity.
House churches are rated regularly, worshipers are arrested,
And many believers are sentenced to lengthy prison terms, flagging or exile.
Ethnic Christians, such as Armenians and Assyrians, are somewhat tolerated if they worship in recognized churches and if they do not evangelize Muslims.
But even the traditional ethnic Christians face discrimination in employment, education, and property rights.
According to reports from Open Doors and many other Christian organizations,
Iran consistently ranks amongst the top 10 worst countries for Christian persecution.
This year, hundreds of Christians were detained, dozens received prison sentences of 5-10 years, and several church leaders remained behind bars on fabricated security-related charges, creating an atmosphere of constant fear for the country's estimated 1 million-plus Christian converts.
Indeed, many Iranians are quickly becoming followers of Jesus.
And God often uses water deprivation to get the attention of people, as in the days of the divine plagues upon Pharaoh in Egypt, when water was turned into blood.
And God will use this tactic again, if necessary, as I've already pointed out, during the Millennial rule of Messiah in Jerusalem.
The author of the Prophecy News Watch article said he believes that Iran is currently experiencing the curses of Genesis 12.3.
And the Bible says that Iran is destined to experience this cursing yet again.
This is because we know that Iran is prophesied one day to join and probably be a leader in a coalition of nations that will invade Israel.
Persia, modern day Iran, is named in Ezekiel 38.5 as one of the nations in a coalition that will invade Israel in the future.
Persia, Iran will unleash its venomous hatred for Israel
for the final time when it joins this invading force in the so-called Gog Magog lore.
The Genesis 12-3 effect will once again lead to destruction for Iran.
Its armies will be annihilated by supernatural judgment from God on the mountains of Israel.
According to Ezekiel 38, the invaders including Iran will come to bury Israel, but God will bury them instead.
So what Iran is experiencing now is a faint foreshadowing of the judgment
they will experience in the future for the rulers' enmity against the Jewish people.
Despite all of this desperate news and desperate times for the downtrodden Iranian people, the good news is that many Iranians are turning away from the Islamic God to the true and living God, Yehovah, the God of Israel, and his son, Jesus the Messiah, for salvation.
God is surely using the war, the economic sanctions, and the water crisis in Iran to draw a remnant of people there to himself.
Some sources say that the church in Iran may be the fastest growing church in the world.
Surely the light of the gospel is shining into darkness.
So let's pray for the physically thirsty and spiritually thirsty people of Iran.
When Jesus said from the cross, I thirst.
He was thirsty not only physically but also for the travail of his soul, meaning he was thirsty for a harvest of souls who would believe in him and follow him to the end.
So please pray with me that this drought in Iran will drive thirsty souls to seek the true water of life.
Our Lord Jesus Yeshua.
Remember the admonition?
He told the woman at Jacob's well.
He said, whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst, but the water that I give him will become a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life.
Amen.
Meanwhile, and other prophetic headlines, a growing number of British Jews say they feel less safe in the United Kingdom.
Polls show antisemitic attitudes had been rising sharply in the UK, fear stoked by several high-profile attacks.
A recent study found that 47% of British Jews now see antisemitism as a very big issue.
And that's up from just 11% who saw it as a major issue in 2012.
The Institute for Jewish Policy Research also found that 32%
of British Jews said that they had personally experienced at least one anti-Semitic incident.
A growing number of British Jews are engaging with the government to address physical attacks and hateful rhetoric.
With wary optimism, they are developing strategies to help the government tackle widespread anti-Semitism, both in Britain's institutions, universities, and on the streets.
But according to a member of the British Board of Jewish Deputies, traditional British Jewish stereotypical thinking is
Just keep your heads down and don't make a fuss and everything will somehow blow over.
But now he said many people are realizing they actually can't do that anymore.
It's just not working for us, he said.
Well, on a more pleasant note, one of the highest compliments in Israeli, a Jewish person can get someone, is that he or she is a human being.
They have a richer meaning in mind than just the literal definition.
In Israel, the Hebrew way to say human being is Ben and Dom.
Literally, son of Adam, the first man created in the image of God.
However, this term extends beyond a literal translation and often carries a more profound meaning akin to the concept of a minch.
Minch is a Yiddish word with a profound meaning also beyond its literal translation of person.
And minch, or a benedom, a human being, in Hebrew is a person characterized by integrity and honor, standing for what's right, demonstrating strong moral principles
and acting with a sense of duty and responsibility.
A bench or binodom is someone characterized by kindness and thoughtfulness, showing genuine concern for others, practicing hesit, loving kindness, and treating everyone with respect.
A bench or binodom has noble character, exhibiting dignity, strength of conviction, and a willingness to do the right thing even in challenging circumstances.
Therefore, when an Israeli calls someone a human being, they might be implying that the individual implies admirable qualities and demonstrates a genuine spirit of humanity.
It's a recognition of good character and good behavior rather than simply identifying someone as a member of the human species.
Once the train headed to a Nazi death camp, there was a brief opportunity for a young son to escape off the train into the woods.
His father was incapacitated, but as he helped the boy to escape, his last words to him were, go and be a mitch.
I believe God is calling many Gentile believers in our generation to go and be a mitch, be a human being, be a binodom to stand on the truth of Genesis 12.3, in which God said, he will bless the Jewish people and curse anyone who curses them.
And of course, he will bless those of us who bless them.
The Hebrew of this verse literally means even those who lightly esteem the Jews are going to be cursed.
Meanwhile, in these prophetic times, people are perishing because they refuse to love the truth and so be saved.
The issue of truth is central to salvation.
Since God holds this responsible to repent and believe the truth of the gospel, He must have made it possible for us to do so.
And indeed, according to Hebrew for Christians,
God has created us in His image so that we're able to discern spiritual truth.
He created us with a logical sense, rationality, as well as a moral sense.
That's our conscience.
So that we can apprehend order and find meaning in the universe that He created.
We have an innate intellectual and moral compass that points us to God.
Since we all necessarily must think in order to live, we should value clear thinking.
This should be obvious enough.
although people often make various errors and misjudgments, but they devalue the effort required to carefully think, to do critical analysis through a question.
As philosopher and psychologist William James once said, a great many people think they're thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices.
However, when it comes to questions about the gospel, God regards such carelessness as blameworthy.
The Lord holds us accountable for what we think and believe, especially when it comes to the reality and mission of his son, Yeshua.
The truth is available to human beings if we're earnestly willing to search for it.
The heavens are constantly attesting to the reality of God's handiwork.
All of creation shouts out that there is a God.
The question remains, why salvation is only in Messiah Jesus, Yeshua?
The Bible declares with unmistakable clarity that salvation is found exclusively in Jesus, Yeshua Hamashiach, because he alone fulfills every requirement of God's redemptive plan.
No one else lived the perfect life God requires.
No one else bore the full penalty for sin as the Lamb of God.
No one else conquered death through resurrection.
Scripture declares in Acts 4, 12, there is salvation and no one else
For there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.
So Jesus alone is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.
His blood established the new covenant promise in the Hebrew Bible in Jeremiah 31-31.
The Bible teaches that through the virgin birth and incarnation only Jesus is both fully God and fully man, making him the only mediator able to stand between the Holy God and sinful humanity.
First Timothy, two, five states, for there is one God and one mediator between God and men, and that's the man, Jesus Christ, who gave himself as a ransom for all.
Salvation can't be earned through works, religion, or human effort.
It rests solely on the Lord's finished work on the cross.
That's why Jesus Yeshua shouted from the cross, it is finished.
That means the work of salvation was completed by him.
His resurrection is God's public declaration that his sacrifice was accepted and that he alone is Lord.
Therefore, salvation is not found in a system, a prophet, a pope, a religion, or our own merit, but in a person in the crucified and risen Son of God.
Jesus emphatically stated, I am the way, the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
Jesus Yeshua alone saves because He alone paid the price
He alone conquered the grave and opened the only path back to God."
So my friend, to sum up today, do you know that there are over 4,000 religions in the world, but there's only one empty tomb.
There's only one man who conquered sin, death, and hell forever, and that's our Savior, Jesus, Yeshua, Ha'asheach.
So no matter how chaotic and dangerous the world is becoming, the question is, are you ready for the soon and sudden appearing of the Lord?
Believe in the Lord Jesus and Messiah.
and you shall be safe and saved.
Amen.
Meanwhile, we'd love to hear from you on social media or through our free Jerusalem channel mobile app.
Please follow my articles at substat.com and all our videos at our Jerusalem channel YouTube platform as well as our website exploits.tv where you have the opportunities to support our work financially.
Finally, we invite you to sign up for our weekly email alert called exploits based upon Daniel 1132
declaring the people who know their God will be strong, not weak, and we're going to accomplish biblical exploits.
That's the works of the Lord in the remaining time before His imminent return.
Meanwhile, let's keep contending for the faith and praying prophetically for the peace of Jerusalem.
I'm Christine Darg, Shalom and Maranatha.
We're in a season to be giving and receiving gifts.
I'm excited to announce a newly published book in paperback called
50 Gifts of the Holy Spirit on Amazon, and it's available both in print and in ebook.
The Holy Spirit offers far more than the nine commonly taught gifts of the Spirit.
Scripture reveals a rich array of divine empowerment for everyday life, spiritual growth, and kingdom impact.
In my newly revised second edition, I describe many ways in which the Holy Spirit equips the Church, unpacking truths on how God still speaks, heals, and guides today
through his word, dreams, visions, and gifts of the Holy Spirit.
In more than 100 pages, I explore at least 50 distinct spiritual gifts that I've discovered all in this Bible, ranging from prophecy to hospitality.
And I attempt to explain why the body of Messiah needs every gift operational to prepare for the Lord's return.
I also tackle the difference between gifts and the fruit of the Spirit,
and why both are vital for our mature faith.
I want to encourage you with such good news that the Holy Spirit distributes gifts way beyond our human limitations, family background, or natural skills.
From administration to mercy, craftsmanship, and discerning of spirits, each expression of the Holy Spirit is a vital tool, freely given by generous God to build up the living church.
The gifts of the Spirit has prepared for you
are irrevocable and yours to walk in forever.
Fifty gifts of the Holy Spirit should be available by time this broadcast is released, and it's a greatly expanded version of my first edition.
I believe this book is vital to dealing with our times because Bible prophecy can be better understood if the gifts of the Spirit are alive and our lives.
Gifting such as the discerning of spirits so vital in a world of increasing deception.
The gifts of the Holy Spirit can be likened to all the various tools in a tool chest.
When the Holy Spirit resides within us, all of his manifold gifts are potentially resident within us.
A friend wrote to me that this book transformed his thinking and was a real blessing for himself and family.
Wherever you are in the world, you can order 50 gifts of the Holy Spirit by searching for that title under the books by Christine Darg, available at Amazon.